## Authentication

> ðŸ’¡
> You can always refer to the [sample project](https://github.com/BitzArt/Blazor.Auth/tree/main/sample/SampleBlazorApp) for additional guidance.

In order to implement User authentication with this library, you need to implement the `IAuthenticationService` in your Blazor Server project and specify it when calling the `AddBlazorAuth` method in your Blazor Server `Program.cs` file.

> â„¹ï¸
> `IAuthenticationService` will be available in both your Server and Client projects, but you should only implement it in your Server project. The Client project will use the Server implementation out-of-the-box by calling the Server's API.

### Implementation

#### Sign-In Payload

Create a class for your Sign-In payload. This class will be used to pass the user's credentials to the `IAuthenticationService` implementation.

> ðŸ“œ
> This class needs to be serializable, so it can be passed between the Client and Server projects over http.

```csharp
// Example Sign-In payload
public class SignInPayload
{
    public string Email { get; set; }
    public string Password { get; set; }
}
```

#### Sign-Up Payload

You don't need to do this if you don't want to implement the Sign-Up functionality.

Create a class for your Sign-Up payload. This class will be used to pass the user's credentials to the `IAuthenticationService` implementation.

> ðŸ“œ
> This class needs to be serializable, so it can be passed between the Client and Server projects over http.

```csharp
// Example Sign-Up payload
public class SignUpPayload
{
    public string Email { get; set; }
    public string Password { get; set; }
}
```

#### Authentication Service

You can inherit from the base `ServerSideAuthenticationService` class in order to simplify the implementation of the `IAuthenticationService` in your Blazor Server project.

```csharp
// Example Authentication Service
public class SampleServerSideAuthenticationService
    : ServerSideAuthenticationService<SignInPayload, SignUpPayload>()
{
    protected override Task<AuthenticationResult> GetSignInResultAsync(SignInPayload signInPayload)
    {
        var jwtPair = CreateSampleJwtPair(); // Replace this with your actual authentication logic

        var authResult = AuthenticationResult.Success(jwtPair);

        return Task.FromResult(authResult);
    }

    protected override Task<AuthenticationResult> GetSignUpResultAsync(SignUpPayload signUpPayload)
    {
        var jwtPair = CreateSampleJwtPair(); // Replace this with your actual authentication logic

        var authResult = AuthenticationResult.Success(jwtPair);

        return Task.FromResult(authResult);
    }

    public override Task<AuthenticationResult> RefreshJwtPairAsync(string refreshToken)
    {
        var jwtPair = CreateSampleJwtPair(); // Replace this with your actual authentication logic

        var authResult = AuthenticationResult.Success(jwtPair);

        return Task.FromResult(authResult);
    }

    private JwtPair CreateSampleJwtPair()
    {
        return new JwtPair
        {
            AccessToken = "my-access-token"
            RefreshToken = "my-refresh-token"
        }
    }
}
```

#### Register the Authentication Service

Call the `AddBlazorAuth` method in your Blazor Server `Program.cs` file and specify your `IAuthenticationService` implementation.

```csharp
// Program.cs
builder.AddBlazorAuth<SampleServerSideAuthenticationService>();
```

Add the authentication endpoints in your Blazor Server `Program.cs`. This is required in order to allow the Client project to call the Server's API and use the server-side `IAuthenticationService` implementation.

```csharp
// Program.cs
app.MapAuthEndpoints();
```

#### User Service

You can now use the `IUserService` in your Blazor Pages to Sign-In, Sign-Up, and Refresh the JWT Pair. The `IUserService` will call your `IAuthenticationService` implementation to perform these actions. Upon receiving a response, the `IUserService` will then update the User's state. You can see more about how the services interact with each other in the [architecture](04.architecture.md) section.

> â„¹ï¸
> You can also inject and use the `IAuthenticationService` directly in your Blazor application, it will process the Sign-In, Sign-Up, and Refresh Token requests without updating the User's state. You can inject the `IAuthenticationService` in the wasm part of your app. It will call the Server's WebAPI to perform the authentication action and return the same response as if the action was performed on the server. Keep in mind that in this case a serialization/deserialization process will take place in order to pass the data between the Client and Server projects.

#### Token duration

You can specify the duration of your access token and refresh token whenever you are providing your `JwtPair` to Blazor.Auth. The duration of the access token should be short, while the refresh token should normally be long-lived. 

```csharp
return new JwtPair
    {
        AccessToken = "my-access-token"
        RefreshToken = "my-refresh-token"
        AccessTokenExpiresAt = DateTimeOffset.UtcNow.AddMinutes(15),
        RefreshTokenExpiresAt = DateTimeOffset.UtcNow.AddDays(7)
    }
```

> âš ï¸
> Not providing an expiration date for the access token will result in the tokens being session-scoped. This means that the tokens will expire when the browser tab closes.

#### Sign out

You can sign the user out by calling the `SignOutAsync` method of the `IUserService`. This will clear the user's JwtPair.

```csharp
await UserService.SignOutAsync();
NavigationManager.NavigateTo("/", true);
```

